CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Please, before sending patches, read these brief comments. They are here to
help the project have both its users happy using the program and the
developers/maintainers feel good when trying to change code that other
people contributed.

For the record, when this document mentions "I", it mostly means Rogério
Brito's (@rbrito) is the one to blame.

# Write good commit messages

When you write your pull request and your commit messages, please, be
detailed, explaining why you are doing what you are doing. Don't be afraid
of being too verbose here.  Also, please follow the highly recommended
guidelines on how to write good [good commit messages][commit-msgs].

When in doubt, follow the model of the Linux kernel commit logs. Their
commit messages are some of the best that I have seen. Also, the ffmpeg has
some good messages that I believe that should be followed. If you are in a
hurry, read the section named
["Contributing" from subsurface's README][contributing].

[commit-msgs]: https://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message
[contributing]: https://github.com/torvalds/subsurface/blob/master/README#L71-L114


# Test that your changes don't break existing functionality

Make sure that you have all dependencies installed, like via:

    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

Run the test suite with

    py.test coursera/test -v --cov coursera --cov-report html

If some test fails, please don't send your changes yet. Fix what broke
before sending your pull request.

If you need to change the test suite, explain in the commit message why it
needs to be changed (e.g., the page layout or the authentication methods
from coursera changed, or they implemented a new kind of course).

# Check for potential bugs

Please, help keep the code tidy by checking for any potential bugs with the
help of [`flake8`][flake8], and [`pylint`][pylint].  If you know of any
other good tools for analyzing the code, let me know about them!

[flake8]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8
[pylint]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pylint

If you happen to find any issue reported by these programs, I welcome you to
fix them.  Many of the issues are usually very easy to fix and they are a
great way to start contributing to this (and other projects in general).
Furthermore, we all benefit from a better code base.

# Changes in the tools that we use

If you are proposing the use of a substitute of a tool that we already use,
take a few paragraphs to tell us why we would like to change.

If we are not using something, it is most likely that one of the following
options applies:

1. I (@rbrito) may not even know that what you are proposing exists or have
   not yet "seen the light" as to why I should use it instead of using what
   I am currently using.
2. Even if I know about the tool, I may not know how to use it, or how it
   would make me more productive.  Educate me and we all will gain from a
   better project.

----

# Short (and incomplete) cheat-sheet for contributions

## To start contributing

Fork the repository using github (there's a button) and clone *your* copy to
your local machine for your personal modifications. Let's say that your
github username is `username`:

```
git clone https://github.com/username/coursera-dl
```

## Making your changes

Initiate a *new* branch on your local repository copy.

```
cd coursera-dl
git checkout -b my-new-branch
```

Then, start hacking, doing whatever you want. Really, just *play* with what
you want. After you make each "logical chunk" of changes (say, you fixed one
*specific* bug, or you made one *specific* feature), commit your changes.

### See what you changed

Use the following commands to see which files you changed and which changes
you made, just to recap, before sending them to the public (up to this
moment, everything that you made lives only on your computer):

```
git status
git diff
```

### Select what you want to commit

You may have made more changes than you want to contribute at this point in
time (this is *very* common). So, we select which changes we want to commit
with:

```
git add -p
```

Then a little prompt will appear and you will interactively select the
changes that you want to make part of the commit. The main options there are
`y` or `n` for including/not including respectively and `s` to split a very
large change into smaller changes ones (this is a killer feature of `git add
-p`).

### See what changes will make into your commit

To see the changes that you have selected to be part of your commit, use:

```
git diff --staged
```

See if everything is OK. If not, then use `git add -p` to add something that
you may have missed or, if you included something else that you *didn't*
intend to include, "un-include" it with:

```
git reset -- file-with-changes-to-un-include
```

Then, you can start over and include only what you meant to put in a single
commit.

### Once you are satisfied with your changes

If you think that your changes make one "logically" cohesive change to the
project, create a commit of them in the repository with:

```
git commit
```

Then, enter a descriptive message of *what* (not why, not how) you changed
on the *first line* and after that, you are free to write your prose
detailing how you did what you did (e.g., which documentation you read), why
you did what you did (Is that a preparation for a future change? Does it
improve the speed or memory requirements of the project?) and other
comments.

Once again, it is good to have in mind some
[rules for good commit messages][commit-msgs].

### Send your changes to github

To see the commit that you just made (with author, date, short and long
description only), use:

```
git show
```

If you want to see the entire commit, use:

```
git show -p
```

If you are satisfied with your changes, go ahead and type:

```
git push origin my-new-branch
```

Where `my-new-branch` is the branch that you created for this set of changes
(you remember that, right?). If everything goes correctly, then, after a few
seconds, your changes will be right there on the cloud, on github! Yay!

To inform the maintainer of the project that you have some shiny changes
that you are proposing for inclusion on the main project, github will show
you somewhere on *your* fork of the project that you have a branch and that
you can create a pull request.

Click that button, compose a message for the maintainer of the project and
tell him/her about what you just did, why you are proposing etc. Send that
message and the maintainer will be notified that you made changes and that
you'd like them to be included in the main project.

That's essentially it.

There are many other tricks/steps in the git workflow, but these are the
basics that I (@rbrito) think that will suffice for a start.  If you want a
few details more, feel free to ask me to include them here.

# Release process

This section is for project maintainers.

DRAFT

1. Run tests locally
2. Run the script on several courses to check sanity
3. Update CHANGELOG.md, increment version, put what you've added to the
   changelog into commit message. This way it gets it way into releases page
   with a nice description of the changes.
   `git add ... & git ci -m 'Bump version (old_version -> new_version)'`
4. `git tag new_version`
5. `git push && git push --tags`
6. `pandoc --from=markdown --to=rst --output=README.rst README.md`.
   I think this is required for PyPI description to look nice.
7. `python setup.py sdist` to build the package
8. `twine upload dist/coursera-dl-0.6.1.tar.gz` to deploy the package.

Commit message:

Add tox to requirements.txt and extend it to versions 26,27,33,34,35
Now it's a snap to run tests locally on multiple versions of Python.

Also fix install_command. tox used to fail because it tried to
pass `--download-cache` option to pip, which is obsolete and gone.

Update CONTRIBUTING.md to explain how to use tox and pyenv together
to run tests locally on multiple Python versions.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Please, before sending patches, read these brief comments. They are here to
help the project have both its users happy using the program and the
developers/maintainers feel good when trying to change code that other
people contributed.

For the record, when this document mentions "I", it mostly means Rogério
Brito's (@rbrito) is the one to blame.

# Write good commit messages

When you write your pull request and your commit messages, please, be
detailed, explaining why you are doing what you are doing. Don't be afraid
of being too verbose here.  Also, please follow the highly recommended
guidelines on how to write good [good commit messages][commit-msgs].

When in doubt, follow the model of the Linux kernel commit logs. Their
commit messages are some of the best that I have seen. Also, the ffmpeg has
some good messages that I believe that should be followed. If you are in a
hurry, read the section named
["Contributing" from subsurface's README][contributing].

[commit-msgs]: https://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message
[contributing]: https://github.com/torvalds/subsurface/blob/master/README#L71-L114


# Test that your changes don't break existing functionality

Make sure that you have all dependencies installed, like via:

    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

Run the test suite with

    py.test coursera/test -v --cov coursera --cov-report html

If some test fails, please don't send your changes yet. Fix what broke
before sending your pull request.

If you need to change the test suite, explain in the commit message why it
needs to be changed (e.g., the page layout or the authentication methods
from coursera changed, or they implemented a new kind of course).

## Using tox and pyenv

Running only py.test is okay for one-time check, but as it runs on your
currently active Python installation, you're only checking the script on one
Python version. A combination of tox + pyenv will allow you to run tests on many
Python versions easily.

First, install tox (listed in requirements-dev.txt) and pyenv (see their manual:
[pyenv installation](https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv#installation). Make sure to
activate pyenv or start a new shell. Then, install Python versions and run tox:

    pyenv install 3.5.1
    pyenv install 3.4.4
    pyenv install 3.3.6
    pyenv install 3.2
    pyenv install 2.7.5
    pyenv install 2.6.9
    pyenv local 3.5.1 3.4.4 3.3.6 3.2 2.7.5 2.6.9
    tox

# Check for potential bugs

Please, help keep the code tidy by checking for any potential bugs with the
help of [`flake8`][flake8], and [`pylint`][pylint].  If you know of any
other good tools for analyzing the code, let me know about them!

[flake8]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8
[pylint]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pylint

If you happen to find any issue reported by these programs, I welcome you to
fix them.  Many of the issues are usually very easy to fix and they are a
great way to start contributing to this (and other projects in general).
Furthermore, we all benefit from a better code base.

# Changes in the tools that we use

If you are proposing the use of a substitute of a tool that we already use,
take a few paragraphs to tell us why we would like to change.

If we are not using something, it is most likely that one of the following
options applies:

1. I (@rbrito) may not even know that what you are proposing exists or have
   not yet "seen the light" as to why I should use it instead of using what
   I am currently using.
2. Even if I know about the tool, I may not know how to use it, or how it
   would make me more productive.  Educate me and we all will gain from a
   better project.

----

# Short (and incomplete) cheat-sheet for contributions

## To start contributing

Fork the repository using github (there's a button) and clone *your* copy to
your local machine for your personal modifications. Let's say that your
github username is `username`:

```
git clone https://github.com/username/coursera-dl
```

## Making your changes

Initiate a *new* branch on your local repository copy.

```
cd coursera-dl
git checkout -b my-new-branch
```

Then, start hacking, doing whatever you want. Really, just *play* with what
you want. After you make each "logical chunk" of changes (say, you fixed one
*specific* bug, or you made one *specific* feature), commit your changes.

### See what you changed

Use the following commands to see which files you changed and which changes
you made, just to recap, before sending them to the public (up to this
moment, everything that you made lives only on your computer):

```
git status
git diff
```

### Select what you want to commit

You may have made more changes than you want to contribute at this point in
time (this is *very* common). So, we select which changes we want to commit
with:

```
git add -p
```

Then a little prompt will appear and you will interactively select the
changes that you want to make part of the commit. The main options there are
`y` or `n` for including/not including respectively and `s` to split a very
large change into smaller changes ones (this is a killer feature of `git add
-p`).

### See what changes will make into your commit

To see the changes that you have selected to be part of your commit, use:

```
git diff --staged
```

See if everything is OK. If not, then use `git add -p` to add something that
you may have missed or, if you included something else that you *didn't*
intend to include, "un-include" it with:

```
git reset -- file-with-changes-to-un-include
```

Then, you can start over and include only what you meant to put in a single
commit.

### Once you are satisfied with your changes

If you think that your changes make one "logically" cohesive change to the
project, create a commit of them in the repository with:

```
git commit
```

Then, enter a descriptive message of *what* (not why, not how) you changed
on the *first line* and after that, you are free to write your prose
detailing how you did what you did (e.g., which documentation you read), why
you did what you did (Is that a preparation for a future change? Does it
improve the speed or memory requirements of the project?) and other
comments.

Once again, it is good to have in mind some
[rules for good commit messages][commit-msgs].

### Send your changes to github

To see the commit that you just made (with author, date, short and long
description only), use:

```
git show
```

If you want to see the entire commit, use:

```
git show -p
```

If you are satisfied with your changes, go ahead and type:

```
git push origin my-new-branch
```

Where `my-new-branch` is the branch that you created for this set of changes
(you remember that, right?). If everything goes correctly, then, after a few
seconds, your changes will be right there on the cloud, on github! Yay!

To inform the maintainer of the project that you have some shiny changes
that you are proposing for inclusion on the main project, github will show
you somewhere on *your* fork of the project that you have a branch and that
you can create a pull request.

Click that button, compose a message for the maintainer of the project and
tell him/her about what you just did, why you are proposing etc. Send that
message and the maintainer will be notified that you made changes and that
you'd like them to be included in the main project.

That's essentially it.

There are many other tricks/steps in the git workflow, but these are the
basics that I (@rbrito) think that will suffice for a start.  If you want a
few details more, feel free to ask me to include them here.

# Release procedure

This section is for project maintainers.

DRAFT

1. Run tests locally. Use tox to run tests on all supported Python versions.
2. Run the script on several courses to check sanity
3. Update CHANGELOG.md, increment version, put what you've added to the
   changelog into commit message. This way it gets it way into releases page
   with a nice description of the changes.
   `git add ... & git ci -m 'Bump version (old_version -> new_version)'`
4. `git tag new_version`
5. `git push && git push --tags`
6. `pandoc --from=markdown --to=rst --output=README.rst README.md`.
   I think this is required for PyPI description to look nice.
7. `python setup.py sdist` to build the package
8. `twine upload dist/coursera-dl-0.6.1.tar.gz` to deploy the package.
